README.md, before:

# Dungeon of YENDOR
## Overview
Dungeon of YENDOR draws inspiration from two of my favorite game genres: rougelikes and hack-and-slash ARPGs.  In essence, it's your character's quest to find the Bauble of Yendor, a very ancient magical artifact, which has been heisted by the powerful necromancer Zyxthbuul. The character will delve into a not-so-deep dungeon (3 floors) in hopes of retrieving the Bauble, happily slaying monsters and collecting loot (of course) along the way.  But beware!  Death is most final, and will only lead to starting over until the Bauble is retrieved and returned to the Lords of YENDOR.
## Technology Used
- HTML
- CSS
- javeScript (still debating whether to use canvas or just CSS grid)
## User Stories
As a user, I want the ability to...
- Read the game rules.
- Read attirbutions (if necessary)
- Start a new game.
- Pick a character class (Warrior, Wizard, or Hunter)
- Name their character.
- Enter the dungeon.
- Fight the enemies on each dungeon level in succession to advance to the next level.  A portal to the next level will appear when the floor is cleared.
- Pick up loot when defeating an enemy.  There will be no 'inventory' per se...only a weapon slot and a potion slot. (Maaaybe an armor slot if I have the time.)
- Level up their character to level 5, picking a passive skill at each level. XP will be awarded for each monster defeated.
- Use a small variety of active skills (I'm thinking 3, one auto-attack and two other cooldown-based skills) provided by their weapon. Each class has only one weapon type they can use (no swapping of weapons except when changing the waepon through looting.)  All weapons of a single type have the same skills, except better versions of the weapon may have better versions of the skills. 
- Manage their health and energy with a potion. The character can only carry one potion at a time.  If it is used they will have to find another to replace it.
- On death or win (retrieve the Bauble of YENDOR) the character's name gets added to a high-score list for the session.  Top five scores are kept. Score will be XP gained - number of turns played + and set number for getting the bauble.
- Return to main splash screen (can exit the game at any time.)
## Wireframes
%%please excuse the really bad wireframes%%

![main splash screen](./images/Splash%20screen.png)
![instructions](./images/Intructions.png)
![character picker](./images/Create%20Character.png)
![the dungeon of yendor](./images/Game%20Screen%20(2).png)
![you win splash](./images/You%20win!.png)
![you lose splash](./images/You%20lose!!.png)

Commit message:

implementation details added to readme

README.md, after:

# Dungeon of YENDOR
## Overview
Dungeon of YENDOR draws inspiration from two of my favorite game genres: rougelikes and hack-and-slash ARPGs.  In essence, it's your character's quest to find the Bauble of Yendor, a very ancient magical artifact, which has been heisted by the powerful necromancer Zyxthbuul. The character will delve into a not-so-deep dungeon (3 floors) in hopes of retrieving the Bauble, happily slaying monsters and collecting loot (of course) along the way.  But beware!  Death is most final, and will only lead to starting over until the Bauble is retrieved and returned to the Lords of YENDOR.
## Technology Used
- HTML
- CSS
- javeScript (still debating whether to use canvas or just CSS grid)
## User Stories
As a user, I want the ability to...
- Read the game rules.
- Read attirbutions (if necessary)
- Start a new game.
- Pick a character class (Warrior, Wizard, or Hunter)
- Name their character.
- Enter the dungeon.
- Fight the enemies on each dungeon level in succession to advance to the next level.  A portal to the next level will appear when the floor is cleared.
- Pick up loot when defeating an enemy.  There will be no 'inventory' per se...only a weapon slot and a potion slot. (Maaaybe an armor slot if I have the time.)
- Level up their character to level 5, picking a passive skill at each level. XP will be awarded for each monster defeated.
- Use a small variety of active skills (I'm thinking 3, one auto-attack and two other cooldown-based skills) provided by their weapon. Each class has only one weapon type they can use (no swapping of weapons except when changing the weapon through looting.)  All weapons of a single type have the same skills, except better versions of the weapon may have better versions of the skills. 
- Manage their health and energy with a potion. The character can only carry one potion at a time.  If it is used they will have to find another to replace it.
- On death or win (retrieve the Bauble of YENDOR) the character's name gets added to a high-score list for the session.  Top five scores are kept. Score will be XP gained - number of turns played + and set number for getting the bauble.
- Return to main splash screen (can exit the game at any time.)
## Wireframes
%%please excuse the really bad wireframes%%

![main splash screen](./images/Splash%20screen.png)
![instructions](./images/Intructions.png)
![character picker](./images/Create%20Character.png)
![the dungeon of yendor](./images/Game%20Screen%20(2).png)
![you win splash](./images/You%20win!.png)
![you lose splash](./images/You%20lose!!.png)
## Implementation Details
Do I use canvas or "plain" css/html?

Classes needed:
- Player
- Enemy
- Character Class (warrior/wizard/hunter)
- Enemy 'Class' (type)
- Skill
- Weapon (Item)
- Potion will be a "one-of-a-kind" item

Functions needed:
- turn counter
- Health/energy counter
- movement handler
- "what do i do on my turn?"
    - move
    - drink potion
    - attack
- potion heal calc
- attack calc (vs defense type)

Other things to consider:
- defense (armor) will just be a % of damage resistance calculation. 
    - two types of resist: physical and magical
    - three types of armor(phys res/mag res): 
        - plated(80/20) (Warrior and melee enemies)
        - dryad(50/50) (Hunter and ranged/some magic using enemies)
        - robes(20/80) (Wizard and wizardly enemies)
